
The **Target** tab in Burp Suite provides more than just control over the scope of our testing. It consists of three sub-tabs:
1. **Site map**: This sub-tab allows us to map out the web applications we are targeting in a tree structure. Every page that we visit while the proxy is active will be displayed on the site map. This feature enables us to automatically generate a site map by simply browsing the web application. In Burp Suite Professional, we can also use the site map to perform automated crawling of the target, exploring links between pages and mapping out as much of the site as possible. Even with Burp Suite Community, we can still utilize the site map to accumulate data during our initial enumeration steps. It is particularly useful for mapping out APIs, as any API endpoints accessed by the web application will be captured in the site map.
2. Issue definitions**: Although Burp Community does not include the full vulnerability scanning functionality available in Burp Suite Professional, we still have access to a list of all the vulnerabilities that the scanner looks for. The **Issue definitions** section provides an extensive list of web vulnerabilities, complete with descriptions and references. This resource can be valuable for referencing vulnerabilities in reports or assisting in describing a particular vulnerability that may have been identified during manual testing.
3. Scope settings**: This setting allows us to control the target scope in Burp Suite. It enables us to include or exclude specific domains/IPs to define the scope of our testing. By managing the scope, we can focus on the web applications we are specifically targeting and avoid capturing unnecessary traffic.
